What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
When you initialize a repository GIT creates a .git hidden folder behind the scenes. You can now start creating commits on your repository. GIT will not crate any commits by itself. You need to create a respository so that you can start creting multiple versions of this file and leverage the power of version control software.


How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?
Staging area is the intermediate area where you can add logically related files together before a commit. It is different from a working directory since not all files in the working directory need to be in the repository and hence not needed in the staging area. It is different from repository since it is a intermediate area and does not hold multiple versions of the files like repository.


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
You can add all logically related changes to the staging area and then run a commit command. This way all logical changes are grouped as part of the commit and then added to the repository.


What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
Branches would create parallel tracks of work and associate the changes to the history. If there a multiple major changes going on in your repository which are not related and you do not want to break your master branch, you could create a branch for both and allow users to work on them separately but still allowing minor updates or enhancements to keep happening on the master branch. This way once the changes in the other branches are stable and tested they could later be merged.


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Diagrams are helpful to find out the commits associated with a branch and also find out which commits cannot be reached. It helps us find the reachability of a commit.


What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
Merging of two branches results in merging the code from both the branches which were done independently upto the point of merge. It also ensures the commits from both branches being arranged as per the timestamp. We represent it in the diagram to find which branch introduced a particular change and also the reachability of a commit.



What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
The advantages of automatic merging is that all non trivial merges will be taken care of without manual intervention but this could come at a cost where in same variables could have been delcared in different parts of the file by two different users. When merging this could result in compilation or run time error depending on the language being used. Manual merging is good for trivial merges where in the same lines of code have undergone changes by two different users. This gives an opportunity for the developers to talk to each other and resolve the merge conflict leaving the end state of the merged file to be a stable one but the disadvantage of having all merges which are non trivial also to be done manually might be an overkill.



