When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?
      Remote repositories are a nice way of backing up your data on a remote server. This will ensure that you don't loose your work
      in the accidental event of your machine getting corrupted or crashing.


Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?
	Syncing changes manually gives more control to the user as to what can be synced. This will not be possible through automatic sync since unwanted changes might make it to the remote repository or non-logical changes might get into the remote when you are still working on it.


Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?
	Forks are used to copy a repository on Github. It creates a new repository for your on Github from an existing repository which you can work upon.
	Clones are used to copy a repository from Github to local or from local to local to make any changes you want to make to the repository.
	Branches can be created on both Github and GIT for any experimental change or major enhancements that you do not want to be reflected on your Production code like master branch.


What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?
	The benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally is that any changes to the local not yet pushed to the remote can be tracked and also any changes in the remote not yet pulled from the remote can be notified.


How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub? What would be easier, and what would be harder?
	Now that I have learnt so much about Git and Github, I feel it would be impossible to go collaboration without it. It is that good. Without Git or Github changes will have to shared manually over emails or LAN where in the other person can review it and merge it into the master copy for the project. This requires lot of co-ordination and will definitely be harder.